Rewrite how to run ACCESS-ESM1.5 according to feedback from user experience (#1202)
ACCESS-Hive/access-hive.github.io: docs/models/run_a_model/run_access-esm.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [MOSRS](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk) is a server run by the UKMO to support collaborative development with other partner organisations. MOSRS contains the source code and configurations for some model components in {{ model }} (e.g., the [UM](/models/model_components/atmosphere/#unified-model-um)).<br>
```

Not related to the changes in the PR but I think might as well fix this here!

Reviewer: The change is "partners organisations" -> "partner organisations"

> {{ model }} release notes are [available on the ACCESS-Hive Forum]({{release_notes}}) and are updated when new releases are made available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[{{ model }} release notes]({{release_notes}}) are available on the ACCESS-Hive Forum and are updated when new releases are made available.
```

    Before running {{ model }}, you need to [Set Up your NCI Account](/getting_started/set_up_nci_account).

- **_MOSRS_ account**<br>
    The [Met Office Science Repository Service (MOSRS)](https://code.metoffice.gov.uk) is a server run by the UK Met Office (UKMO) to support collaborative development with other partners organisations. MOSRS contains the source code and configurations for some model components in {{ model }} (e.g., the [UM](/models/model_components/atmosphere/#unified-model-um)).<br>

>     To apply for a _MOSRS_ account, please contact your [local institutional sponsor](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/DAE/Prerequisites).

Reviewer: Are there any changes that need to go here with the updated process? We could add an `includes/ukmo.md` file so that prerequisites can be shared across the UM based models?

Reviewer 2: I have [this open PR ](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1220/changes) with updated MOSRS account instructions. 
@ccarouge, the idea is to put these updated MOSRS instructions in an include file that can be used by "rose-cylc" and the "payu" instructions. I did a temporary fix in the ESM1.5 instructions to avoid confusion until the new ESM documentation is ready.

Reviewer 2: @ccarouge I noticed the PR preview does not include the updated MOSRS account information that was updated in [this PR](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1220/changes) and has now been merged into `development` branch. Have you included this MOSRS information in an include file?

Author: @heidinett I'm not sure what you are referring to with:

> @ccarouge I noticed the PR preview does not include the updated MOSRS account information that was updated in [this PR](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1220/changes) and has now been merged into development branch. Have you included this MOSRS information in an include file?

The PR link you sent is for an open PR that isn't on `development` yet. 

I'm happy to add the text in an include file directly in this branch, I just want to make sure I'm working from the right info.

Author: The branch has been rebased on `development` and now includes the correct instructions for the MOSRS account.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @ccarouge. Looks good!

    For more information on joining specific NCI projects, refer to [How to connect to a project](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+connect+to+a+project).

## Terminology

??? info "_Configuration_ and _experiment_ definitions"

    {%
        include-markdown "includes/terminology.md"
        start="<!--start:terminology-conf-vs-exp-->"
        end="<!--end:terminology-conf-vs-exp-->"
    %}

## Workflow manager, _payu_

??? info "_payu_'s data organisation"

>     {%

Reviewer: I'd suggest moving the text 

> [_payu_](https://github.com/payu-org/payu) is a workflow manager tool for running numerical models in supercomputing environments. It is an open-source software, distributed under an Apache 2.0 Licence.

> For in-depth information about _payu_, check its [technical documentation](https://payu.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). 

so that is sits above of the `??? info "_payu_'s data organisation"` collapsible section. I think this might help give an initial idea of what payu is before the reader clicks through to the details

        start="<!--start:payu-about-->"
        end="<!--end:payu-about-->"
    %}
    For {{model}}, the standard output is saved in the file `access.out` and the standard error in `access.err`.

{%
    include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
    start="<!--start:access-payu-->"
    end="<!--end:access-payu-->"
%}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Get {{ model }} configuration

Released configurations are tested and supported by ACCESS-NRI, and build upon those originally developed by [CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au/en/research/environmental-impacts/climate-change/climate-science-centre) and [CLEX CMS](https://github.com/coecms/access-esm).<br> 

All released {{ model }} configurations are available from the [{{ model }} configs]({{github_configs}}) GitHub repository: `{{github_configs}}`.<br>

Supported configurations:

| Configuration | Reference | Branch name |
|---------------|-----------|-------------|
| piControl     | [Eyring et al. (2016)][Eyring 2016] | release-preindustrial+concentrations |
| CMIP6 historical | [Eyring et al. (2016)][Eyring 2016] | release-historical+concentrations |

!!! note

>     The released configurations for ESM1.5 do not reproduce the published CMIP6 model outputs for various reasons. However, the configurations are properly using the CMIP6 experiment protocol in the setup of each supported configuration.

Reviewer: I think this is a good point to include. Just a small thing but the second sentence "However, the configurations are properly using the CMIP6 experiment protocol in the setup of each supported configuration." reads a little circularly to me.

Could something like "However, the supported configurations adhere to the relevant CMIP6 experimental protocols." work here?

Reviewer 3: This -^

Or just

" However, the configurations follow the CMIP6 experiment protocol."

    start="<!--start:get-config-payu-->"
    end="<!--end:get-config-payu-->"
%}

??? exemple "Example: Cloning a configuration"
    {%
        include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
        start="<!--start:payu-clone-example-->"
        end="<!--end:payu-clone-example-->"
    %}

??? info "Testing the configuration"
    {%
        include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
        start="<!--start:payu-test-config-->"
        end="<!--end:payu-test-config-->"
    %}

!!! tip
    If you want to restart your experiment from a specific restart point, please refer to [Start the run from a specific restart file](#specific-restart).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
   start="<!--start:payu-run-experiment-->"
   end="<!--end:payu-run-experiment-->"
%}

??? tip "Identifying `run_length` for your experiment"

    In {{model}}, `run_length` is controlled by the `runtime` setting in the `config.yaml` file in the configuration. For example, a 1-year `run_length` is given by:

    ```yml
        runtime:
            years: 1
            months: 0
            days: 0
    ```
    

>     See the section on [changing `run_length`](#change-run-length) for more information on customising the simulation time for ACCESS-ESM1.5.

Reviewer: This link didn't seem to work for me when I tried it earlier

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Monitor {{ model }} runs

{% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
   start="<!--start:payu-monitor-->"
   end="<!--end:payu-monitor-->"
%}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Edit {{ model }} configuration {: #edit-{{ model.lower() }}-configuration }

{% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"

>    start="<!--start:payu-modif-intro-->

Reviewer: For some reason this section isn't showing up in the PR preview

   end="<!--end:payu-modif-intro-->"
%}

??? info "Change the simulation length"

    ### Change the simulation length 
    

>     One of the most common changes is to adjust the duration of the model run.<br> {{model}} simulations are split into smaller _run lengths_, each with the duration specified by the `runtime` settings in the `config.yaml` file:

Reviewer: I'm guilty of originally putting in the  "One of the most common changes is to adjust the duration of the model run" but now  think it's incorrect. I haven't really seen people change the run length.

Related to Anton's comment, I think this section is a bit confusing as we say "changing run length is very common" -> "You usually shouldn't change the run length"  -> "here's how to do it". I also feel like the distinction between "run length" and "simulation length" might not be obvious to beginners, and am not sure how useful all the detail on the `runspersub` option is. (noting that these issues aren't from this PR, and stem from things I'd put in previously)

To me, the [Run the experiment](https://access-hive-docs--1202.org.readthedocs.build/models/run_a_model/run_access-esm/#run-the-experiment) already adequately explains how to control the simulation length. 

Feel free to push back on this suggestion, but I'm wondering if the following could help make it a bit clearer:

1. Replace the "Change simulation length"  collapsible block with a "Change run segment length for testing" block. Start it with the warning that it should only be done for testing purposes, and that 1 year run lengths are required for actual experiments. Move this block further down the list so that it's less prominent.

2. In the [Modify PBS resources](https://access-hive-docs--1202.org.readthedocs.build/models/run_a_model/run_access-esm/#modify-pbs-resources) block, mention that you can set it to do multiple runs within each submission using the `runspersub` option.

Author: I took a slightly different route. I've put the explanation of `runspersub` and `-n` in the "Run an experiment" section. So people know how to play with these options right from then. I thought that Willem's question on the forum might be an indication we need this information to be readily available to users. Then, as you suggested, I moved the <1 year option to its own block under the "payu options for advanced users".

Reviewer: Thanks, I think those changes look good

        ```
        payu run -f -n 7
        ```
        This will submit subsequent jobs for the following years: 1 to 3, 4 to 6, and 7, which is a total of 3 PBS jobs.
    !!! tip
        The `walltime` must be set to be long enough that the PBS job can complete. The model usually runs a single year in 90 minutes or less, but the `walltime` for a single model run is set to `2:30:00` out of an abundance of caution to make sure the model has time to run when there are occasional slower runs for unpredictable reasons. When setting `runspersub > 1` the `walltime` doesn't need to be a simple multiple of `2:30:00` because it is highly unlikely that there will be multiple anomalously slow runs per submit.
    
    #### Run for less than one year for testing purposes {: id="shorter-runs"}
    When debugging changes to a model, it is common to reduce the run length to minimise resource consumption and return faster feedback on changes. In order to run the model for a single month, the `runtime` can be changed to
    
    ```yml
        runtime:
            years: 0
            months: 1
            days: 0
    ```
    

>     With the default configuration settings, the sea ice component of {{ model }} will produce restart files only at the end of each year. If you may want to continue your short simulation over a longer period, you will need valid restart files created at the end of each run. For this, the sea ice model configuration should be modified so that restart files are produced at monthly frequencies, to match _runtime_. To do this, change the `dumpfreq = 'y'` setting to `dumpfreq = 'm'` in the `cice_in.nml` configuration file located in the `ice` subdirectory of the _control_ directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    With the default configuration settings, the sea ice component of {{ model }} will produce restart files only at the end of each year. For _payu_ to complete a run, you will need valid restart files created at the end of each run. For this, the sea ice model configuration should be modified so that restart files are produced at same frequency as the _runtime_ setting. To do this, change the `dumpfreq = 'y'` setting to `dumpfreq = 'm'` for monthly or `dumpfreq = 'd'` for daily  in the `cice_in.nml` configuration file, located in the `ice` subdirectory of the _control_ directory.
```

??? info "Specify the restart file"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
      start="<!--start:payu-restart-choice-->"
      end="<!--end:payu-restart-choice-->"
    %}

??? info "Specify the compute project and storage location"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-compute-storage-project-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-compute-storage-project-->"
    %}

??? info "Modify PBS resources"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-PBS-resources-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-PBS-resources-->"
    %}

??? info "Syncing output data"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-sync-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-sync-->"
    %}    

??? info "Pruning model restarts"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-restart-prune-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-restart-prune-->"
    %}    

??? info "_payu_ options for advanced users"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-advance-options-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-advance-options-->"
    %}    

> ??? info "Collate of ocean output files"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? info "Collation of ocean output files"
```

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-collate-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-collate-->"
    %}

{% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
   start="<!--start:payu-component-configuration-->"
   end="<!--end:payu-component-configuration-->"
%}

> ??? info "Create a custom {{ model }} build"

Reviewer 3: The paragraph before this introduces changing runtime configuration and configuration files, but now we are talking about the exectuable

    For more information on joining specific NCI projects, refer to [How to connect to a project](https://opus.nci.org.au/display/Help/How+to+connect+to+a+project).

## Workflow manager, _payu_

> ??? info "What is _payu_ and how are the simulation files organised by _payu_"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
??? info "What is _payu_ and how are simulation files organised by _payu_"
```

Reviewer 3: Is this heading going in all pages? Could is go in `payu.md` instead ?

Author: I don't find that putting it in `payu.md` works well. I prefer it as the title for the collapsible section only.

    {%
        include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
        start="<!--start:about-->"
        end="<!--end:about-->"
    %}
    For {{model}}, the standard output is saved in the file `access.out` and the standard error in `access.err`.

{%
    include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
    start="<!--start:access-payu-->"
    end="<!--end:access-payu-->"
%}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Get {{ model }} configuration

> Released configurations are tested and supported by ACCESS-NRI, as an adaptation of those originally developed by [CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au/en/research/environmental-impacts/climate-change/climate-science-centre) and [CLEX CMS](https://github.com/coecms/access-esm).<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Released configurations are tested and supported by ACCESS-NRI, and build upon those originally developed by [CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au/en/research/environmental-impacts/climate-change/climate-science-centre) and [CLEX CMS](https://github.com/coecms/access-esm).<br>
```

Reviewer 3: I don't find that <br> format's very clearly:

<img width="676" height="116" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19894d77-a795-4046-8689-1b9207d8fc7b" />

Maybe `<br>` should insert some space afterwards ?

All released {{ model }} configurations are available from the [{{ model }} configs]({{github_configs}}) GitHub repository: `{{github_configs}}`.<br>

[Supported configurations:][model configurations]

| Configuration | Branch name |
|---------------|-------------|
| CMIP6 Concentration-driven pre-industrial | release-preindustrial+concentrations |

> | CMIP6 Concentration-driven historical | release-historical+concentrations

Reviewer 3: If we are talking about CMIP6, then use piControl and historical I think?

These are answer changing to the published CMIP6 data, so do we need some clarifying language about what we mean by CMIP6 here ?

Author: The change in answers comes from changes in the code or compilation, correct?

Reviewer 3: I would guess there's also runtime changes which have been answer changing, but am not really involved in esm1.5 so i don't know

Author: I don't understand: "If we are talking about CMIP6, then use piControl and historical I think?" Do you mean instead of "concentration-driven pre-industrial" and "concentration-driven historical"? There were some emissions-driven runs done for CMIP6.

Reviewer 3: > Do you mean instead of "concentration-driven pre-industrial" and "concentration-driven historical"?

Yes - exactly, if we are referring to explicit experiments, then use the CMIP name for them

Author: I'm changing the name and adding the reference to the paper that describes the experiments protocol.

{%
    include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
    start="<!--start:get-config-payu-->"
    end="<!--end:get-config-payu-->"
%}

> ??? abstract "Experiment example"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? abstract "Example: Cloning a configuration"
```

I think the "experiment example" could be made a little clearer that it's about cloning configurations. Not sure that my suggestion is the best though

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
   start="<!--start:payu-run-experiment-->"
   end="<!--end:payu-run-experiment-->"
%}

??? tip "Identifying `run_length` for your experiment"

    In {{model}}, `run_length` is controlled by the `runtime` setting in the `config.yaml` file in the configuration. For example, a 1-year `run_length` is given by:

    ```yml
        runtime:
            years: 1
            months: 0
            days: 0
    ```
    
    See the section on [changing `run_length`](#change-run-length) for more information on customising the simulation time for ACCESS-ESM1.5.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Monitor {{ model }} runs

{% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
   start="<!--start:payu-monitor-->"
   end="<!--end:payu-monitor-->"
%}

### Model Live Diagnostics

ACCESS-NRI developed the [Model Live Diagnostics](/model_evaluation/evaluation_on_gadi/model_live_diagnostics) framework to check, monitor, visualise, and evaluate model behaviour and progress of ACCESS models currently running on _Gadi_.<br>

> For a complete documentation on how to use this framework, check the [Model Diagnostics documentation](https://med-live-diagnostics.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).

Reviewer 3: Does this work? looks stale since 2024 ?

Author: I was wondering about that, since it was on ESM1.5 and OM2 pages, I didn't remove it. Happy to remove though.

Reviewer 3: Feel free to argue it's not in scope (:

Author: Removed.

%}

??? info "Change run length"

    ### Change run length 
    
    One of the most common changes is to adjust the duration of the model run.<br> {{model}} simulations are split into smaller _run lengths_, each with the duration specified by the `runtime` settings in the `config.yaml` file:
    
    The length of an {{model}} run is controlled by the `runtime` settings in the `config.yaml` file:
    
    ```yml
        runtime:
            years: 1
            months: 0
            days: 0
    ```
    At the end of each run length, each model component saves its state into a _restart file_, allowing the simulation to be continued in subsequent runs.
    
    !!! warning
        The _run length_ (controlled by `runtime`) should be left at 1 year for {{model}} experiments in order to avoid errors. Shorter simulations can be useful when setting up and debugging new experiments, however they require     additional configuration changes. See the section [Run for less than one year](#shorter-runs) for details.
    
    To run the model for longer than the default run length, conduct multiple runs, see 
    [Run an experiment](#run-an-experiment).
        

>     #### Understand _runtime_, _runspersub_, and _-n_ parameters {: id="multiple-runs"}

Reviewer 3: It's confusing to say that we don't recommend changing the run length, but oh, actually, here's how to change the run length ??

Author: I've tried to improve on the text here, but we ultimately say: don't do it unless you have to for testing purposes. 

In particular, I've changed the title from "Change run length" to "Change the simulation length" to try and lessen the confusion.

        ```
        payu run -f -n 7
        ```
        This will submit subsequent jobs for the following years: 1 to 3, 4 to 6, and 7, which is a total of 3 PBS jobs.
    !!! tip
        The `walltime` must be set to be long enough that the PBS job can complete. The model usually runs a single year in 90 minutes or less, but the `walltime` for a single model run is set to `2:30:00` out of an abundance of caution to make sure the model has time to run when there are occasional slower runs for unpredictable reasons. When setting `runspersub > 1` the `walltime` doesn't need to be a simple multiple of `2:30:00` because it is highly unlikely that there will be multiple anomalously slow runs per submit.
    
    #### Run for less than one year {: id="shorter-runs"}
    When debugging changes to a model, it is common to reduce the run length to minimise resource consumption and return faster feedback on changes. In order to run the model for a single month, the `runtime` can be changed to
    
    ```yml
        runtime:
            years: 0
            months: 1
            days: 0
    ```
    

>     With the default configuration settings, the sea ice component of {{ model }} will produce restart files only at the end of each year. If valid restart files are required when running shorter simulations, the sea ice model     configuration should be modified so that restart files are produced at monthly frequencies. To do this, change the `dumpfreq = 'y'` setting to `dumpfreq = 'm'` in the `cice_in.nml` configuration file located in the `ice`     subdirectory of the _control_ directory.

Reviewer 3: Doesn't payu crash if you don't have a restart file from the end of the run ?

Reviewer: For cice it hangs onto the restart from the start of the run. It doesn't crash immediately, but I guess it would cause problems in subsequent runs

Author: Why are you assuming that the instructions in the text would not produce a restart at the end of the run @anton-seaice ? Or are you asking for an additional warning about that?

Reviewer 3: It says _If valid restart files are required when running shorter simulations,_ allowing for us not to require them if we wanted

Author: Oh, I understood it as: if you just run a short simulation and don't care about continuation, then you don't care about the creation of restarts by your short simulation. I'll update the text.

## Terminology

??? info "_Configuration_ and _experiment_ definitions"

    {%
        include-markdown "includes/terminology.md"
        start="<!--start:terminology-conf-vs-exp-->"
        end="<!--end:terminology-conf-vs-exp-->"
    %}

## Workflow manager, _payu_

{%
    include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
    start="<!--start:payu-about-->"
    end="<!--end:payu-about-->"
%}

??? info "_Payu_'s data organisation"
    {%
        include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
        start="<!--start:payu-organisation-->"
        end="<!--end:payu-organisation-->"
    %}
    For {{model}}, the standard output is saved in the file `access.out` and the standard error in `access.err`.

{%
    include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
    start="<!--start:access-payu-->"
    end="<!--end:access-payu-->"
%}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Get {{ model }} configuration

Released configurations are tested and supported by ACCESS-NRI, and build upon those originally developed by [CSIRO](https://www.csiro.au/en/research/environmental-impacts/climate-change/climate-science-centre) and [CLEX CMS](https://github.com/coecms/access-esm).<br> 

> All released {{ model }} configurations are available from the [{{ model }} configs]({{github_configs}}) GitHub repository: `{{github_configs}}`.<br>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All released {{ model }} configurations are available from the [{{ model }} configs]({{github_configs}}) GitHub repository.<br>
```
This was reverted back. I feel it's not neccessary to print the link that's already included and not inline code format which should be kept for code commands/keywords

Author: Actually, considering people will need to copy/paste this URL to give to `payu clone`, I feel it might be better to have the URL visible. Same reason as in the example above. Since the example is in a collapsible section, I feel it is worth having this URL visible in both places so it's easy for people to copy/paste it.

Note, I haven't re-read the whole page, so if the URL is visible somewhere else (not in collapsible section), it might be fine to "hide" it here.

{%
    include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
    start="<!--start:get-config-payu-->"
    end="<!--end:get-config-payu-->"
%}

??? example "Example: Cloning a configuration"
    {%
        include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
        start="<!--start:payu-clone-example-->"
        end="<!--end:payu-clone-example-->"
    %}

??? info "Testing the configuration"
    {%
        include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
        start="<!--start:payu-test-config-->"
        end="<!--end:payu-test-config-->"
    %}

!!! tip
    If you want to restart your experiment from a specific restart point, please refer to [Start the run from a specific restart file](#specific-restart).

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Run an experiment

!!! warning
    The individual run length defined in the configuration should be left at 1 year for {{model}} experiments in production in order to avoid errors. To run the model for longer than the default run length, conduct multiple runs. _Payu_ provides a range of options that allow you to control the length of the experiment as explained in this section.

>     The only exception is for testing purposes, in that case, it is possible to set the run length to be shorter than 1 year but other modifications are required as explained in [Run for less than one year](#shorter-runs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The only exception is for testing purposes, in that case, it is possible to set the run length to be shorter than 1 year but other modifications are required as explained in [Run for less than one year for testing purposes](#shorter-runs).
```

??? tip "Identifying the run length for your experiment to ensure it is set to 1 year"

    In {{model}}, the run length is controlled by the `runtime` setting in the `config.yaml` file in the configuration. A 1-year run length is given by:

    ```yml
        runtime:
            years: 1
            months: 0
            days: 0
    ```
_Payu_ provides two options to give you complete control over the length of the simulation:

- `runspersub` (in the `config.yaml` file) &rarr; the maximum number of runs for _payu_ for each PBS job submission
- `-n` (command line option) &rarr; sets the total number of runs to be performed, including runs per submission and through automated resubmissions of _payu_

`runspersub` allows you to maximise the number of years simulated within a single PBS job. For this, you also need to set `walltime`, the maximum time of every PBS job, accordingly. The option `-n` allows _payu_ to resubmit itself to continue the simulation in a subsequent PBS job.

!!! tip "Setting `walltime` in `config.yaml`"

>     The `walltime` must be set to be long enough that the PBS job can complete. The model usually runs a single year in 90 minutes or less, but the `walltime` for a single model run is set to `2:30:00` out of an abundance of caution to make sure the model has time to run when there are occasional slower runs for unpredictable reasons. When setting `runspersub > 1` the `walltime` doesn't need to be a simple multiple of `2:30:00` because it is highly unlikely that there will be multiple anomalously slow runs per submit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `walltime` must be set to be long enough that the PBS job can complete. The model usually runs a single year in 90 minutes or less, but the `walltime` for a single model run is set to `2:30:00` to ensure the model has time to run when there are unforeseen slower runs. When setting `runspersub > 1`, the `walltime` doesn't need to be a multiple of `2:30:00` as it is unlikely that there will be multiple anomalously slow runs per submit.
```

> In conclusion, considering the run length should be left to 1 year, for simulating _N_ years with {{model}}, you need to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hence, if the run length should be left to 1 year, for simulating _N_ years with {{model}}, you need to:
```

Author: Sorry, it's not a "if" here, it's a strict state that must be respected. So I'm happy with "In conclusion, since...." but not "Hence, if....". This sentence is a concise version of what precedes: it tells you what to do considering the long explanation above. I'm happy to change "In conclusion" with "Hence" if you prefer but not sure that's better.

Reviewer 2: Good point. "In conclusion, since...." is fine.

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-compute-storage-project-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-compute-storage-project-->"
    %}

??? info "Modify PBS resources"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-PBS-resources-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-PBS-resources-->"
    %}

??? info "Syncing output data"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-sync-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-sync-->"
    %}    

??? info "Pruning model restarts"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-restart-prune-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-restart-prune-->"
    %}    

??? info "Collation of ocean output files"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-collate-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-collate-->"
    %}

??? info "_Payu_ options for advanced users"

    {% include-markdown "includes/payu.md"
       start="<!--start:payu-advance-options-->"
       end="<!--end:payu-advance-options-->"
    %}

    ??? info "Run for less than one year for testing purposes"
    
        #### Run for less than one year for testing purposes {: #shorter-runs .no-toc }

>         When debugging changes to a model, it is common to reduce the run length to minimise resource consumption and return faster feedback on changes. In order to run the model for a single month, the `runtime` can be changed to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        When debugging changes to a model, it is common to reduce the run length to minimise resource consumption and return faster feedback on changes. In order to run the model for a single month, the `runtime` can be changed to:
```

## Edit the model components' configuration

??? info "Edit the physics options"

    ### Edit the physics options

    To modify the physics used by a component of {{model}}, the input data or the model variables saved in the output, you will need to modify the model component's configuration files. These are located inside a subfolder of the _control_ directory, named according to the submodel's `name` specified in the `config.yaml` `submodels` section.

??? info "Create a custom {{ model }} build"

    ### Create a custom {{ model }} build
    All the executables needed to run {{ model }} are pre-built into independent configurations using _Spack_.<br>

>     To customise {{ model }}'s build (for example to run {{ model }} with changes in the source code of one of its component), refer to [Modify and build an ACCESS model's source code](/models/build_a_model/build_source_code#{{model|lower}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To customise {{ model }}'s build (e.g., run {{ model }} with changes in the source code of one of its component), refer to [Modify and build an ACCESS model's source code](/models/build_a_model/build_source_code#{{model|lower}}).
```

??? info "Controlling the diagnostics output by the model"

    ### Controlling the diagnostics output by the model
    Selecting the variables to save from a simulation can be a balance between enabling future analysis and minimising storage requirements. The choice and frequency of variables saved by each model can be configured from within each submodel's _control_ directory. 
    

>     Each submodel's _control_ directory contains _detailed_ and _standard_ presets for controlling the output, located in the `diagnostic_profiles` subdirectories (e.g. `~/access-esm/preindustrial+concentrations/ice/diagnostic_profiles` for the sea ice submodel). The _detailed_ profiles request a large number of variables at higher frequencies, while the _standard_ profiles restrict the output to variables more regularly used across the community. Details on the variables saved by each preset are available in [this Hive Forum topic](https://forum.access-hive.org.au/t/preset-output-profiles-for-esm1-5/3629).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Each submodel's _control_ directory contains _detailed_ and _standard_ presets for controlling the output, located in the `diagnostic_profiles` subdirectories (e.g., `~/access-esm/preindustrial+concentrations/ice/diagnostic_profiles` for the sea ice submodel). The _detailed_ profiles request a large number of variables at higher frequencies, while the _standard_ profiles restrict the output to variables more regularly used across the community. Details on the variables saved by each preset are available in the [Preset output profiles for ESM1.5](https://forum.access-hive.org.au/t/preset-output-profiles-for-esm1-5/3629) ACCESS-Hive Forum post.
```
